Sun 

This star that sits in the center of our solar system is 864,000 miles wide. This makes it 109 times the size of Earth. 
Just like how the Earth rotates to create days, the sun also rotates constantly. It takes 27 earth days for the sun to make a single rotation.
The sun has a surface temperature of 10,000 degrees. But this is nothing compared to the temperature at its core at 27 million degrees. 
This heat is created by it being made up of mostly hydrogen and helium, and these elements constantly exploding and creating heat and light. 

Mercury 

This hot and cold planet has a single day as long as 59 days on Earth. 
It only takes 88 Earth days for it to revolve around the sun once, making it have a very short year. 
This is because it is the 1st planet from the sun, but even with it being first it’s still 36 million miles away from the sun. 
Because it’s so close, Mercury’s days can get as hot as 801 degrees, but at night, because it’s facing away from the sun for so long, it gets as cold as -279 degrees. 
Mercury doesn’t have much of an atmosphere( a protective barrier), so it’s covered in craters created by rocks flying through space. 
Mercury is a very small planet, being less than half as wide as earth, and has no moons revolving around it.  

Venus 

This planet is still fairly small, but is about the same size as Earth. Though its size is the only similarity it has with our home.  
Even being about the same size as Earth, Venus still lacks a moon. 
Venus’s year is about 100 days shorter than our own at 225 earth days, however, the strangest part is that for one Venus day to pass, it takes 243 earth days. Its day is longer than its year. 
Being the 2nd planet from the sun, Venus is 67 million miles away from it. 
This doesn’t keep it cool, though. Due to a thick blanket of gases containing carbon dioxide and nitrogen, the surface temperature of Venus is 900 degrees constantly.  
This planet is deadly for more reasons that its high temperature. It is covered in volcanic mountains and winds similar to those of hurricanes on Earth. This planet is not one you’d want to live on. 





Earth

The Earth is our home, and is the third planet from the sun. 
Though we know a day to be 24 hours and a year to be 365 days, it’s actually slightly different than that. A day is 23.9 hours and a year is 365.25 days. Which is why every four years we have a leap year, where an extra day is added to our calendar. 
The Earth is 93 million miles from the sun, and is 7,918 miles wide. 
The temperature of Earth changes depending on where you are, but the average temperature is about 57 degrees, the temperature of a chilly fall day. 
Just like many other planets, the earth has an atmosphere barrier that protects the planet along with allowing us to breathe. The Earth’s atmosphere is made up of mostly nitrogen, oxygen, and argon. 

Moon

The earth has only one moon, the one that we see almost every night in the sky. Even though it looks to be so close, the moon is still 239,000 miles away from earth. 
It takes 27 days for the moon to revolve around the earth, and the same amount of time for it to have a single moon day. Because of this, we always see the same side of the moon. 
The moon lacks a protective barrier, and so it can get both really hot and really cold. From -387 degrees to 253 degrees. 



Mars

Mars is the 4th planet from the sun, right after the Earth. This makes it 142 million miles away from the sun. 
Mars has a similar day to earth, taking 24.6 hours to rotate once around. Its year, however, is nearly twice as long as one Earth year. Taking 687 earth days. 
Similar to Earth, Mars has two moons. Named Phobos and Deimos.
Mars has a defensive barrier known as an atmosphere, but it is very thin and barely protects it at all. Made of Carbon dioxide, argon, nitrogen, and very little oxygen and water. 
Because of its thin protective barrier, a lot of items from space are able to crash into the planet, creating impact craters.
Mars is a red and rocky planet containing volcanoes and heavy winds, with an average temperature being extremely low, at -81 degrees. 
